Today is a day to commemorate and a day to salute.
We commemorate the magnificent Challenger 7,
when we lost last year at this time.
And we salute you, the men and women of America's NASA team.
America will never forget that terrible moment a year ago
when our relation turned to horror and then to grief and pain.
Seven of our final words for the boundaries of space,
where Earth ends and the path to the stars begins.
In the next decade, we will build and fly a new space shuttle.
For me, this is a special commitment.
In the first moments of grief and shock,
the bereaved families of the crew, Earth.
Program moving forward.
We owe it to them and to those whom we too lost,
they do just that.
Now, I know that voices have been raised from time to time,
saying, oh yes, it's exciting and adventurous.
But does it have any practical value to justify its cost?
Well, the answer to that question is a resounding yes.
Perhaps we've been derelict and not doing more
to make known the literally thousands of human oriented
technological developments that have spun off from the program,
and which will affect all our lives,
and the lives of our children and our children's children.
But there's every reason to believe these spin-offs
will become a tremendous value.
I understand that a project is now being developed
to pass on to all Americans specific knowledge
of this aspect of the space program.
The United States Space Foundation, a nonprofit educational
foundation, is preparing a series of TV and radio
public service statements so that all Americans
will be aware of these achievements
and how they will benefit all of our lives.
I think this is a worthy effort.
Yes, whether it's in the exploration of space
or the applications of space research here at home,
the future to which you are leading this is bright.
The challenge that you're shouldering for all mankind
is one that we cannot turn away from.
We owe it to our children and their children
and generations beyond.
We owe it to ourselves.
We owe it to those who with all their love and joy
encourage, pass again just one year ago today.
But mankind you reach must exceed its grasp
for what's ahead and for.
The story is agreed at a strife
that the study of space is the oldest of the physical sciences.
It has captured the attention of philosophers and farmers,
lovers and lawyers, virtually everyone
who shares this relationship, we call it.
On the walls of kings in the mythology of the earliest times,
the globe, we understand the nature of the universe,
creating models from his observations.
He was able to solve challengers,ungeness—
I just wanted to ask you what the world is.
our reach into space, man's understanding accelerated.
And then something very special happened.